# QUASIJAZZER

## Introduction for Drift and Riding

In this world, especially in Jazz music scene, it is very difficult to play
with good groove on automatic backing track generators. They very likely play
with less swing.  As you have heard in the famous song "It Don't Mean a Thing
If It Ain't Got That Swing", jazz music without swing feel does not impress
much to audience.

In my analysis, the beats of good groove are multi-layered by two parameters:
the length of the notes, and a classification as on-beat, off-beat; and played
with what I call "drift". This "drift" is not a denominational terminology.
Almost every note in Jazz is played earlier/later than its location where it
should be played if it is written in a music sheet.

It is very important to a good rhythm section to configure the bassist and the
drummer with proper drifts; otherwise their rhythm limits the possibility of
improvisation of the lead players who play on the band.

And another parameter is what I call "riding". Riding indicates the direction
of alignment in a melody. Assume there are several measures here, and a series
of notes. When the begining of these notes are aligned at the begining of the
measures, the melody is configured in *head-aligned-riding*; when the ending of
these notes are aligned at the ending of the measures, the melody is configured
in *bottom-aligned-riding*.

Generally, melodies which are played in high latitudes tent to be
head-aligned-riding while melodies which are played in low latitude tent to be
bottom-aligned-riding; therefore I sometime refer the bottom-aligned-riding as
equatorial rhythm.

For further information, please see my description "Introduction of Drift and
Riding - Important Parameters for Generating Good Groove".

This application is being written for the proof of the theory, now.

# Dependency
This application can run on Pulsar. This consists a submodule which is called
"quasijazzer-band" which includes some patch files and sound fonts, etc.




